[AUDIO LOGO]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to Beyond Belief.
Bill McKenna, back
with us, the author
of The Only Lesson and founder
of the Cognomovement systems.
Bill has been on the
show several times,
teaching us things like the
simple method how to bend time.
Today is no different.
He is here to talk about a
simple method to access 5D
healing.
Bill welcome back.
>>BILL MCKENNA:
Oh, thanks, George.
I'm so happy to be here because
today is going to be amazing.
We're going to actually
witness some miracles.
And people are going to learn
how to actually do some of it
themselves.
>>NOORY: What is the 5D system?
>>MCKENNA: The
technique is actually
called the Cognomovement
Square Technique.
And this technique
basically puts you
into a state where amazing
healing can happen.
>>NOORY: Now, 5D means what?
>>MCKENNA: 5D means
a state of being.
So 5D-- for example, if you're
in a state of love, acceptance,
you feel connected with
the people around you.
You're not in resistance.
And you're trying to be
of service to another.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MCKENNA: That will put
you into that 5D state.
>>NOORY: Now, what
is 5D download?
>>MCKENNA: So 5D download is
really something interesting.
It is what my business
partner experienced, which
you're going to hear all about.
It is when you're neutral.
You're no longer in fear.
You're no longer
in a state where
you're worried about anything.
You're completely relaxed.
You are in a state of
compassion and wanting
to be of service to another.
And in that state, what
happens is information simply
comes to you about
how to do that.
>>NOORY: What puts
us in that state?
>>MCKENNA: So what puts
us in that state, I guess,
is the ability to get out of
all of those lower frequency--
our grief, our guilt, our shame,
our humiliation, our anger,
our resentment.
Once all of those
are gone and we
have moved into a state
where we authentically
want to be of service and
we don't have any real
want of an outcome--
like, I'd like some
money for that.
I would like some
recognition for that.
I just want to be there
and being of service.
>>NOORY: How did you
come across this, Bill?
>>MCKENNA: Well, in this
particular thing that we
came across, it wasn't even me.
I didn't come across it.
I have--
>>NOORY: Oh, take
the credit for it.
>>MCKENNA: [LAUGHS] I can't
take the credit on this one.
My business partner, who's the
co-founder of Cognomovement, Liz
Larson, is the one
who actually came up
with this particular
technique that we're
going to talk about today.
>>NOORY: Interesting take.
Now, you have helped
people with autism.
How does that work?
>>MCKENNA: That is
something that I guess--
we come at it sideways.
And what I mean by that
is with Cognomovement,
we don't actually help anyone
with any diagnosed or named
disease, whether the disease
is physical or emotional.
All we do is we help people to
build back their mental acuity.
We help them with their athletic
or physical performance.
And we help them to relax.
Those are the things
that we primarily do.
When we do that, then the system
just automatically takes over.
But specifically around
this, the situation
that happened with autism, was
extraordinarily interesting.
My business partner, we have
practitioners around the globe.
And many of them are
therapists of different kinds--
psychotherapists, psychologists,
doctors, acupuncturists.
You name it.
There was one-- they
specialize in different things.
And some of them aren't
even actually professionals
that are like that.
But they specialize
in different things.
This particular
therapist specialized
in very severe cases of
children suffering with autism.
And we're talking about
they're often wheelchair bound,
don't have control over
their bodies, are nonverbal.
>>NOORY: As bad as autism
could get, they've got it.
>>MCKENNA: That's it.
And that's what
she specializes in.
And she's like an angel because
these are what they call--
they aggress,
meaning scratching,
punching, the whole 9 yards.
It's pretty bad.
>>NOORY: You're out of control.
>>MCKENNA: Out of control.
So my business partner went
over there to Pennsylvania to--
she was getting good results.
But we wanted to see what we
could do to actually get better
results with this audience.
There was 10 of these
children lined up
that were all in the same boat,
different varieties as far
as symptoms.
But she went out
there to help them.
And when she got
there, the situation
was really pretty
tense because you
can imagine being in a
room with a child that's
suffering like that.
Everybody in the room is tense
and just wants to be of service.
But the situation is like
a firestorm everywhere,
tearing stuff up.
>>NOORY: 10 kids
with autism has got
to be unbelievable to control.
>>MCKENNA: So what
ended up happening
is she walks in the room.
And she likes to describe it.
It was like it felt
like a migraine,
like the energy
of being in there.
And she ended up like,
for lack of a better term,
stepping back--
stepping back and away from
that chaos and said a prayer,
a prayer to be of service.
>>NOORY: What made
Liz say a prayer?
>>MCKENNA: She saw these
children and the parents
suffering.
How can I help?
What's a way?
And how can I be of service?
And with that
compassion, that she had
and that pure desire
to be of service,
a message came
through, like that.
It just came through work in a
square in a non-focused vision.
And that's kind of unusual--
well, really unusual,
because it's not what
we do in Cognomovement work.
What we do is we work
with focused vision.
And we have the person to
move their eyes because we
can find the problem
area in the brain
and then help to build
back their brain.
But the children that
are suffering with autism
have a very difficult time
tracking and moving their eyes.
They have very limited
amount of movement.
So there she was.
And she got that download
to do this work in a square
in the non-focused vision.
>>NOORY: She helped
somebody named Simon.
Tell us about Simon.
>>MCKENNA: So Simon was there.
And Simon-- he was the kid
that was really out of control.
>>NOORY: How old is he?
>>MCKENNA: My understanding is
that he was actually approaching
30 years old at this point.
>>NOORY: That's not a kid.
>>MCKENNA: Well, the
rest of the room,
he was the oldest
one in the room.
But this one was the
one that went first.
And yeah, he isn't
a kid at that age.
But what happened is that--
the very first
thing is that he was
what we call out of his body.
He felt no control
over his limbs.
And he was, as his mom
says, out of his body.
When they would type--
because that's how
they communicate.
He's non-verbal.
So they would type on a computer
back and forth to communicate.
He could do it
very, very little.
But he ends up
typing to his mom.
And his mom's like, you're in my
head, saying what I'm thinking.
I want to hear what
you're thinking.
He just wasn't
there in his body.
And we did this test
with the Bio-Well.
And this device, this Bio-Well,
measures the energy of a person.
Konstantin Korotkov, he
had invented this device.
He's a physicist.
And it measures the
energy in the body.
He had combined Kirlian
photography, which is actually
measures biophotonics--
that's his physics
background-- and also Korean
fingertip acupuncture,
where he could actually measure
each and every little part
of the bioenergy field.
And it would tell you, because
they had mapped it already
through fingertip
acupuncture, where everything
is in the entire body.
And Simon, we could see
he was out of his body
from these tests.
>>NOORY: Now, who is
Colby, another therapist?
>>MCKENNA: Colby?
Yes.
She's another therapist.
That is the therapist that works
with these nonverbal children
suffering with autism.
>>NOORY: All right, let's take
a look at Colby and Liz together
telling us about this
session with Simon.
It's remarkable.
>>COLBY.KAISER: My
name is Colby Kaiser.
And I am a speech and
language pathologist
and a cognitive
movement practitioner.
The population I work with is
made of adults and children
with autism and
traumatic brain injury.
Many of them are non-speaking.
Simon is extremely intelligent.
If I were to
describe him, I would
say he's constantly in motion.
He spins.
He touches things.
He can't sit down.
And he has a history
of some aggression.
When Liz was working
with Simon, we
asked if it would
be OK if we could
help support his body so that
he could stay in one place.
He agreed.
>>LIZ LARSON: So
at the first pass
of doing this, moving the
ball in his non-focused vision
and asking the brain
to reach, his body
took a big, deep breath in.
And his body relaxed fully into
the person that was holding him.
>>KAISER: Her hands
were over his heart.
And what she said was his
heart rate began to go down.
And he became very
still and very quiet.
>>LARSON: So I asked
him if he would
be willing to share with
us what just happened.
So very calmly, he
walked over to the table
where his tablet was
and his typing stylus.
And he sat down and began to
tell us what happened next.
"Slower in the
peripheral was less work.
So it was easier to
let my body relax.
I felt warmth move from
my feet to my head.
I felt my limbs for a while."
The question was asked, do you
not normally feel your limbs?
"No, not as a system.
I just don't typically know
where they are in relation
to space unless I'm
crunched up tight."
So it's not just about working
with people with autism.
It's a function
that each of us has.
Our non-focused
vision goes unused.
And it's this massive
piece of who we are
and how our body
and brain function
that is left out all the time.
It's allowing us all to
understand more about our brain,
about our body, about
our nervous system,
about our awareness, and about
our consciousness and how
to create change in
ourselves and on the planet.
>>NOORY: So it seems,
Bill, that this
had an amazing effect on Simon.
>>MCKENNA: The effect
was far reaching.
And it wasn't just him.
There were another
nine kids after that.
But he--
>>NOORY: And it
worked on all of them?
>>MCKENNA: All of them.
>>NOORY: Amazing.
And the most amazing
thing, George,
is what happened after
when they went home.
>>NOORY: What happened?
>>MCKENNA: They started getting
along with their siblings.
>>NOORY: And they
never had before?
>>MCKENNA: It was not a thing.
The level of aggression
just dropped.
Everything around them, the
entire family, was impacted.
And everything calmed down.
>>NOORY: You saved their lives.
>>MCKENNA: Well, it was Liz.
And it was a huge, huge win.
>>NOORY: Bill, tell us
about Simon's telepathy.
>>MCKENNA: Simon-- this is one
of the incredible things about
him, is that they were
typing back and forth--
well, first off, Simon
began to-- instead
of only typing a little bit,
began volumes of typing.
So that's the first thing.
So the ability to start
communicating, that part
of the brain started firing.
But the telepathy,
they had asked,
hey, Simon, why don't
you just communicate
with all the other kids?
He came back and said,
we don't need to.
We already know what each in
every other one is thinking--
>>NOORY: Remarkable.
>>MCKENNA: --and
what they're feeling.
And this is such
a big discovery.
Nobody knew this that
they were in contact
with each other constantly.
Not only that, but
their telepathy
is so good that when someone is
not feeling compassion for them
or love or gratitude or
whatever, they feel it.
They know what you're thinking.
So this is a major
discovery not only
to understand the
intelligence level that's
so advanced with these kids but
that they are very much affected
by us.
>>NOORY: This helps
Simon so much.
He started taking
college courses.
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
And this one nearly
brought everyone to tears.
And it's not because
of the college courses.
He was asked by Liz.
I understand you're
interested in studying.
What are you
interested in studying?
And he says theology.
Oh, interesting, theology.
What aspects?
Because theology is huge.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>MCKENNA: And he said, I
want to study love, gratitude,
and compassion.
>>NOORY: Three things
he never had before.
>>MCKENNA: Something that is
major to understand the thought
process and the feelings
of somebody like that.
>>NOORY: Let's take
me on an exercise.
Show me what you do.
>>MCKENNA: OK, well, we're
a little bit far apart.
But let's see how it goes.
Now, you could use anything.
We could use a ball.
We could use a pen.
>>NOORY: Use the ball.
>>MCKENNA: The ball,
it's pretty good
because it's a
little bit colored.
It's going to be a
little easier to track.
So the way this works is
you simply just look over
my shoulder.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MCKENNA: Pick a point
back there to look at.
>>NOORY: And stay
focused on that?
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
And all you're going
to do is simply notice
this with your peripheral
or non-focused vision.
>>NOORY: You don't want
me to follow the ball?
>>MCKENNA: No, I want you to
look over on that one point.
But can you see the ball?
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>MCKENNA: You can?
>>NOORY: It's right up here.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, fantastic.
>>NOORY: Now, it's coming around
>>MCKENNA: OK, you got it.
You got it.
Just look over.
Look over.
>>NOORY: Now, what does this do?
>>MCKENNA: The interesting
thing about this
is that it affects your
entire nervous system.
It causes you to relax.
It also causes a release
of dopamine and endorphins.
And so--
>>NOORY: How could I not see it?
>>MCKENNA: There we go.
Yeah, just simply
noticing, noticing the ball
as it goes around
and just relaxing.
That's all.
>>NOORY: Are there some
people who actually could not
see the ball?
>>MCKENNA: At a certain point--
we're very far away
from each other.
But there are people who
cannot actually see it
because their vision has been
damaged through an accident.
Their peripherals shut down.
So we go to the point
that they can see it.
For you, you probably can.
>>NOORY: So what is
this supposed to do?
>>MCKENNA: So what
it'll do is it
will cause an involuntary
reaction, a relaxation response.
Your parasympathetic system
starts to become active.
And the sympathetic system is
the one is that fight or flight.
And the parasympathetic
is rest and digest.
>>NOORY: You're hypnotizing me.
>>MCKENNA: It feels like that.
You've started to feel relaxed.
>>NOORY: Too relaxed.
>>MCKENNA: Too relaxed.
I better stop because
we got to continue
the rest of the interview.
>>NOORY: We got a
show to do here.
>>MCKENNA: Do you feel
anything in your chest,
a good feeling in your chest?
>>NOORY: Yeah, I feel good.
>>MCKENNA: That is
as simple as that.
And it does release
those chemicals.
I like to call it the experience
when you go on vacation.
When you go on vacation,
you go to that new place
that you've never been
before, like Paris or Hawaii
or somewhere that you
really wanted to be.
And you get off the plane.
And your vision is
really out there.
The periphery is way open.
You also had a good feeling
to go along with it.
This opening up
of the periphery.
What happens is not only are
you accessing those other parts
of your brain.
But this really good
feeling starts coming.
>>NOORY: Tell us about
Nicole, the 76-year-old.
>>MCKENNA: Well, Nicole,
one of my favorite people
in the world that I got
to meet through this work,
in 2016, she was very active.
She would ski in the winters.
And out of the trees
comes a snowboarder
and hits her in the
back of the head.
>>NOORY: Ouch.
>>MCKENNA: Terrible.
No helmet, no nothing.
Just wham.
Hits her in the
back of the head.
And she's out.
And everything in her life
started descending into 10th
level of hell.
>>NOORY: Concussion?
>>MCKENNA: Oh, yeah.
And subsequent to that, she
had another and another.
She had three major
concussions and never
had one before in her life.
>>NOORY: And so what are the
things that you did with Nicole?
>>MCKENNA: So Nicole was in a
state where she was a shut-in.
She was in her house.
She was shaking.
She was nervous.
She went from all
kinds of relationships
to this shut-in life.
And what I ended
up doing with her
is this exercise and
regular cognitive movement
to build back her mental acuity.
So she went through a process of
daily exercises, which started
to bring her brain back online.
Let's take a look.
>>NICOLE BECKER: Well,
after the concussions,
I began to have problems
with my driving.
My perception was that
everyone was too close to me
and that I was in danger.
Very scary.
I thought, wow, maybe
I'm having Alzheimer's.
Maybe I'm going to
be having dementia.
So that kind of collapse of
that skill was pretty scary.
And I knew I needed to get help.
>>MCKENNA: And then
what happened to you
after you did the
peripheral exercises?
>>BECKER: It slowly opened up.
And what was real--
the reality was there.
I could perceive what was real.
My natural state is loving
and playful and positive
and I just want to help.
And so now, I'm back.
And I feel like I can
live the rest of my life.
Learning and practicing
the peripheral exercises
opened everything back up again.
I had vision like I had
when I was a teenager.
And I was confident and capable.
And I could trust myself.
And I could react
well when anything
happened with other drivers.
So that was huge.
>>NOORY: It sounds like this
technique changed her life.
>>MCKENNA: That was only a very
short part of the total story.
Her entire life changed--
joyful, back to
skiing, parties, very
vibrant in every possible way.
>>NOORY: Tell us about Reese.
>>MCKENNA: Wow, this one.
This is something.
Reese was diagnosed
with cerebral palsy.
Been blind since birth.
>>NOORY: Oh my God.
>>MCKENNA: Could
not walk on her own.
Had two sticks.
But someone had to literally
walk with her everywhere,
holding her.
Not only that, but
she literally was 100%
disabled in that she could
not get up out of the chair.
If she fell down and
nobody was there,
she can't get up on her own.
There was absolutely
no balance, nothing.
So this whole situation,
we worked with her
over a period of time.
Liz Larson, again,
did this and was
able to bring her back to life.
And this is an incredible
story because she
had only just very little hints
of shadows that she could see.
And when you see
what happened to her,
it's nothing short of
incredible, not only the walking
but actually the vision.
We've got video of
Reese with your team
before and after
they worked with her.
And the transformation
is incredible.
>>REESE GOODHEART:
Hi, my name is Reese,
and I am legally blind.
When I first met
Liz Larson, I wasn't
able to see much, like,
I can only see shadows.
But when I met her
and I got to work
with her with Cognomovement,
I am now able to see things,
like, when I drop
something on the floor,
I'm able to pick it up.
And when we're
driving somewhere,
I'm able to see trees
on the side of the road
and things like that.
I'm so grateful
for it because it's
nice to be able to see things
I've never seen before.
So when I was able
to walk on my own,
I was able to see the
rocks and the trees.
And that actually
gave me independence.
To just be able to go
outside, go around the block,
come back home without--
[CHUCKLES] going into somebody
else's house, to be able to see,
that's our garage or whatever,
that made me feel independent.
>>NOORY: Are you actually
saying that the blind
was able to see
with this technique?
>>MCKENNA: We were able
to bring her brain back.
We were able to bring her
mental acuity, the brain.
It wasn't the eyes.
It was her brain.
We're able to rewire her nervous
system through these exercises
so that her brain came
online, and with that, all
the other function.
>>NOORY: Could she
see, Bill, or was she
imagining that she was seeing?
>>MCKENNA: It was
very interesting.
That's an interesting question.
Before we worked, a shadow--
she could see shadows.
But what happened is, is that
things started showing up,
like her shoes.
Like, hey, where's your--
where's your shoes?
And she'd be able to say, oh
my gosh, there's my shoes.
I can't believe I--
>>NOORY: And she'd
know where they were.
>>MCKENNA: She would
know where they were now
and be able to see the colors as
well, picking out her own shoes.
So this was just nothing
short of amazing.
>>NOORY: And that was with the
simple peripheral vision test
that you just gave me?
>>MCKENNA: That was
one of the techniques.
Then that particular
technique is
the one that really helped
build back her mental acuity,
plus she used many others.
In that clip, if you
go back and rewind,
you can see her
actually moving the ball
and tracking it
with her own eyes.
She couldn't do any of that.
The eyes were just
all over the place.
There was nothing,
couldn't track.
>>NOORY: Did these techniques
enhance psychic abilities?
>>MCKENNA: That is something--
another kind of
accidental discovery.
These psychic abilities,
your intuition, if you will,
that comes in many
different ways.
But when you utilize these
techniques, fundamentally,
what we're doing is processing
all of the lower frequency
emotions, the shame, guilt,
grief, humiliation, anger,
that sort of thing.
And with that,
one will typically
start to see that they're more
intuitive in different ways.
But very specifically,
this particular technique
of the square, it
appears that people
begin to start to see other
information, information that's
outside the normal
range, like orbs,
seeing different energies or
orbs in their peripheral vision.
>>NOORY: Now, tell us the story
about Liz and the silver wave.
>>MCKENNA: She had an occasional
thing that would happen,
where you'd see a
flash of something.
A lot of people see that.
You might be in
the shower, and you
see a little blue dot appear.
>>NOORY: And you have
no idea what it is.
>>MCKENNA: What it is, yeah.
And a lot of people have that.
Well, after doing this
technique, it became very clear,
this silvery thing for
her was over on her side
and then just was always there,
that she had this thing there.
And this is-- it
sounds really woo-woo.
But what we know from
near-death experiences
is that once somebody goes
through the dying process,
they start to talk about,
hey, Uncle Fred is here,
and he says, blah, blah, blah.
And he's right there.
And they're seeing
it right before they
go through the dying process.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MCKENNA: And this happens to--
we know--
>>NOORY: Countless
people, countless people.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah,
countless people.
And so, what this is--
what we believe is
beginning to happen
is that they're always
there, but the frequency
simply of the range that
we're in is expanded.
So you can see into a
higher range, if you will,
for information.
>>NOORY: Has anything
about this, Bill,
surprised you, shocked you?
>>MCKENNA: Oh, yes.
Every week, every
week, I'm shocked.
>>NOORY: Huh.
>>MCKENNA: The amazing things
that can be done across
the globe--
we have these practitioners,
and they come to us
with stories of this and that,
that somebody has helped with.
It's such a joy to
not only help but also
have our practitioners out there
doing it where they're doing it.
And the stories are
even more incredible.
>>NOORY: You had mentioned
that chemicals within the body
are released during these
techniques, the dopamines,
the endorphins.
How is that possible?
>>MCKENNA: This is a kind of an
interesting thing that we had--
we knew that there
was something going on
because when we did the
work, the very first people,
they said they had
this incredible feeling
in their body.
Well, as it turns out, there's
a bunch of scientific research.
The Princeton Neuroscience
Institute, Columbia, University
of Rochester, there's
a lot of research
out there that the
peripheral, not only
will cause a involuntary
reaction for relaxation
but also causes dopamine and
endorphins to be released.
>>NOORY: Have you used these
techniques on yourself?
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
Yes, I have.
And when I did, I had all
kinds of interesting, weird
experiences myself.
>>NOORY: What might have been
wrong with you to do this?
>>MCKENNA: [CHUCKLES]
Well, I just
was doing it to see if I could
get any positive outcome.
>>NOORY: I mean, were
you ever ill or anything?
>>MCKENNA: No.
No, I was fine.
I was fine.
But we don't work with just--
we're kind of talking
about helping people
that have a lot of problems.
But we work with Olympic
athletes, billionaires, people
that want an edge because
you can use this all
to gain performance.
>>NOORY: Do you have to be
positive about this in order
for it to work?
>>MCKENNA: You don't.
It's involuntary.
You're utilizing your
natural neurological systems
to rewire your body.
What we do in the
work that we do
is we let a person
feel how they do.
We didn't tell Simon,
hey, Simon, you
need to shape up
a little bit here,
son, and get a better attitude.
We just let him
feel how he felt.
And everyone that we
work with, whether it's
an emotional issue
or a physical issue,
we don't try to
change people's mind.
We basically changed their
brain and their nervous system
through rewiring it.
>>NOORY: And you
rewire it, don't you?
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, we rewire it.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: Are people sometimes
stuck in fear and agony
with this survival mode?
>>MCKENNA: I think the
majority of the population
is in some version
of fear or anger
and being divided from each
other right now globally.
And this is kind
of a prison when
you're in it because
when you're afraid,
it's a self-validating,
if you will.
There's always something out
there to validate your fear
or validate your anger,
validate your position.
>>NOORY: How does 5D
generally help people overall?
>>MCKENNA: The slow process of
moving through the dimensions--
the third dimension, again, is
where all of that fear and doubt
rules our lives.
And the fourth
dimension, we begin
to let go of all of our
judgments and assumptions
and to basically begin to have
compassion and love and trust.
But it's a process.
It's kind of the
fourth dimension
is the training wheels in
between the third and the fifth.
And in the fifth, when we
get there, what happens is,
is that we have let go.
We've let go of our
judgments about ourselves.
We've let it go of our
judgments about others,
and we begin to have compassion.
And when we get here
to the fifth dimension,
things begin to
happen instantly.
If I think that
I want something,
then it simply just
begins to show up.
But it's very, very natural.
I love the story,
I have a friend.
My friend, who's definitely
in the fifth dimension,
had a recipe.
And the recipe called for
corn salsa from Trader Joe's.
And it's like, oh, I want this.
I want to have this for lunch,
but I don't have the corn salsa.
I'm going to get it.
I'll go back.
I'll go to the store later.
And starts the process of
making a different luncheon.
And the door knocks nearly
just a couple minutes later.
And a woman's at the door, and
she says, I've never met you.
But I'm your next
door neighbor, and I
went to Trader Joe's today.
And I got this corn salsa.
I stuck a spoon in it.
>>NOORY: No way.
>>MCKENNA: I took a
spoonful of the corn salsa,
and I was like, oh, this
is terrible corn salsa.
I don't want this.
I'm going to go and see if
that lady next door wants it.
Goes over and says--
>>NOORY: Here.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
Knock, knock.
That is the way it happens.
Once we let go, and
we're in that state,
and it's a lived experience,
it comes right to your door.
>>NOORY: What does that?
Was he doing that, or
was she doing that?
Something was the
catalyst for this.
>>MCKENNA: What it
is, is that when
the frequency of our
thoughts and feelings
is so very, very clear, we
were absent our traumas,
we're absent our
fear, our anger,
and this frequency becomes
so very, very clear.
What happens is it
finds its match.
All it does is find its match.
It's much like
finding the match.
Somebody can relate to for
all of us, myself included,
is if I'm feeling
a little bit surly,
I'm angry about something,
and I go to the grocery store,
I tend to have problems
with the other shoppers,
or maybe it's the
checkout person.
I'm just going to
have some problems.
People are going to cut me off.
The frequency will
find its match.
And so that's all we're doing.
>>NOORY: I had a guest
for Coast to Coast,
the radio show that I hadn't
had on in about five years.
And I was thinking, I
haven't had this person
on in five years.
I have to call my
executive producer
and tell her about this.
And we'll get him back on.
Well, I never made the call.
Except the following week, he's
on the schedule as a guest.
>>MCKENNA: There.
>>NOORY: How does that happen?
>>MCKENNA: That was wonderful.
You're doing it, George.
You're right there.
>>NOORY: Should people do
the ball situation at home?
>>MCKENNA: Absolutely.
It's best if somebody
does it for you and--
>>NOORY: A professional?
>>MCKENNA: A professional, or
there's training available.
You can become a professional.
But even doing it
where, let's say,
you begin to look across the
ceiling, and down the wall,
across the floor, and
up the other wall, where
your eyes are forward, even with
that, it's not as effective.
But what you will find,
if your eyes are forward
and you start to do
that, you'll find
that you'll have that
sensation in your body,
and things will
begin to open up.
>>NOORY: Does age have
to-- be a factor here?
>>MCKENNA: Age is a factor,
but it doesn't need to be.
So here's how it works.
Our vision, our peripheral
vision as we age,
typically will shut down.
And with it, literally, it's
not the peripheral vision
shutting down, it's the brain.
You've noticed that when
some people get older,
they hold a fixed position
of their opinions,
and they can't
change their mind.
>>NOORY: They don't deviate.
>>MCKENNA: They don't deviate.
Well, what happens is, is
that this is a reflection
of that fixed mindset.
But it doesn't have to be.
Just like Nicole, who's
partying like a teenager,
as your periphery--
your vision opens up,
it's really your brain.
All those new connections,
those curiosities are there.
Anyway, it is-- there
are more techniques to it
to really get it to open
up, but it's a great start.
>>NOORY: What does science say
about some of these miracles
we've witnessed on
the tapes today?
>>MCKENNA: The interesting
thing about all these things
is they have one
thing in common,
and that's the brain
and the nervous system.
Neuroplasticity, the ability
to make your brain better,
no matter what it is, you can
build back your mental acuity.
And with that, all of
the different functions
starts to come back online.
There's simple exercises
that anybody can do and start
building back.
The brain typically,
will get damaged
through emotional insults
or physical insults--
>>NOORY: Or age.
>>MCKENNA: --or-- well, age.
But you can do
something about it.
You can, if you stay active,
keep learning new things
and doing these exercises.
What you'll do is you'll
stimulate your brain.
And you can end up being
just as vibrant at 85,
90 years old as you
were in your 20s.
My own mother, she
did all of these
exercises and does
them everyday.
And she is more vibrant today
at 86 than she was in her 40s.
>>NOORY: Amazing.
>>MCKENNA: But she works.
She works very, very
diligently at it.
>>NOORY: It is
absolutely staggering
how it works, isn't it?
>>MCKENNA: It is, it is.
>>NOORY: What's
your next project?
>>MCKENNA: My next project
is to help more people,
just expand the audience
to help more people,
and have more
practitioners out there
helping more people globally.
>>NOORY: How do people
find you at Cognomovement?
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, we have a
free class for everybody,
cognomovement.com/gaiadownload.
And I can help
everybody on the road.
>>NOORY: And people
can do this at home?
>>MCKENNA: Yes, they can.
Yes.
And we'll--
>>NOORY: Truly remarkable
what you've done for people.
>>MCKENNA: It's been a blast.
It's literally a joy, George.
I've never experienced
such joy in my life.
I've done a lot of things,
but this, this is it.
>>NOORY: Bill, thanks for
being on Beyond Belief.
>>MCKENNA: Thank you, George.
>>NOORY: Truly
remarkable that exercise
he did with me has
already invigorated me.
I feel like I can do anything.
Thanks for being
on Beyond Belief.
[THEME MUSIC]